# Setup 

Unzip each of the files in place in this folder and the directory structure for the examples will be created. 


# Code History Database

The `chd.zip` expands to a copy of the Code History database, which is used in the geographic data preparation walkthough. 
A pdf is contained that details all the code fields. 

The data was originally sourced from [here](https://ons.maps.arcgis.com/home/item.html?id=a6a1247a7d8e45068011e8f482cdf3c5).


# Geographic Data 

Shapefile data is a common format to define geographic regions and can come in different resolutions and areas covered. The files used in the Visualisation example for Wales were 
sourced from the ONS Open Geography Portal [here](http://geoportal.statistics.gov.uk/datasets/national-assembly-for-wales-constituencies-december-2015-super-generalised-clipped-boundaries-in-wales)


# General Election Predictions 

Two data sets are provided under `data/election` were generated by [SixFifty](https://github.com/six50) as part of a [previous hackathon](https://github.com/six50/hackathon):

* `ge_2010_2015_training_data.csv` - Based on **2010 to 2015 General Election** plus polling data 3 days before election. 
* `ge_2015_2017_prediction_data.csv` - Based on **2015 to 2017 General Election** plus polling Data 3 days before election.

## Training Data: 

[Link to original dataset](https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/sixfifty/ge_2010_2015_training_data.csv)

Based on **2010 to 2015 General Election** plus polling data 3 days before election:

ID Columns:
* Press Association Reference - ID for the Constituency
* Constituency Name

Regional Details:
* Region - Categorical
* Electorate - Number of people registered to vote in the constituency in 2015
* Votes - Number of people who voted in the constituency in 2015

Party Details:
* party - name of the party (one of the top 7)
* votes_last - number of votes received in 2010 
* pc_last - Fraction of all votes received for the region in 2010 
* won_here_last - Did the party win the seat in 2010? (1=yes, 0 =no)

Poll Results:
* polls_now - Results for the national polls 3 days before the election in 2015
* swing_now - Percentage change from vote share in 2010 nationally
* swing_forecast_pc - The forecast percentage change this swing makes for this party in this region.
* swing_forecast_win - The party predicted to win using this Uniform National Swing approach
* actual_win_now - The actual party that won the seat in 2015 
* actual_pc_now - The actual percentage of the vote secured by the party for that region in 2015 (**Target Variable**)


## Testing Data:

[Link to original dataset](https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/sixfifty/ge_2015_2017_prediction_data.csv)

Based on **2015 to 2017 General Election** plus polling Data 3 days before election:

ID Columns:
* Press Association Reference - ID for the Constituency
* Constituency Name

Regional Details:
* Region - Categorical
* Electorate - Number of people registered to vote in the constituency in 2017
* Votes - Number of people who voted in the constituency in 2017

Party Details:
* party - name of the party (one of the top 5)
* votes_last - number of votes received in 2015
* pc_last - Fraction of all votes received for the region in 2015 
* win_last - Did the party win the region in 2015? (1=yes, 0 =no)

Poll Results:
* polls_now - Results for the national polls 3 days before the election in 2015
* swing_now - Percentage change from vote share in 2015 nationally
* swing_forecast_pc - The forecast percentage change this swing makes for this party in this region.
* swing_forecast_win - The party predicted to win using this Uniform National Swing approach
* actual_win_now - The actual party that won the seat in 2017 (**Currently Missing**)
* actual_pc_now - The actual percentage of the vote secured by the party for that region in 2017 (**Currently Missing**)




